So in the last video, we added code to store our post in indexedDB and to then register this as a synchronization
task with the service worker.
We also added this visual sugar here to output a message to the user that we stored that for syncing.
Now of course what happens if we don't support service worker or sync manager though? Then we don't send anything
at all right now and
that of course is definitely not what I want to do.
So I'll add an else statement because it's important, when building progressive web apps, we add features progressively.
An important part of that is that it still works on older browsers and here, a browser doesn't even have
to be that old,
sync manager is a feature which isn't supported in all browsers, even in the modern ones.
So we definitely need to provide a fallback logic and for that, I'll create a new function which I'll
call send data and this will directly send the data to the back-end without using the synchronization
event.
So here I want to call send data and that is super important because if we don't have that, we don't
support older browsers which would be very bad. Inside send data here,
I now want to send data to my back-end
and we already do have a back-end,
we already have this Firebase project where we get data from. Now we can't just get data from it,
we can also send data to it with a post request.
So this is what I want to do,
I want to send data to this back-end and for that, I will use fetch.
Now I can use fetch since we added a polyfill,
so this will also work in older browsers.
Now fetch then takes this API endpoint with the .json at the end just like for getting the data
but of course to return this to the post request, I need to pass a second argument to fetch where I set method
to post.
I also have to specify a body here and that body shall be Javascript object, to be precise,
I'll use JSON stringify here to turn this into JSON data
and there I want to send an ID where I use new date toIsoString,
I want to set a title which is title input.value and of course a location which is location input.value.
So it's basically the same data
we already store here from a set up perspective.
I'll also copy that link here to an image as a dummy right now,
we will later add a way to take an image in the application so that I'm also able to send an image to
the back-end. I'll just send this string here, without the double quotation marks, just normal quotation marks
here.
So this is the data I want to send,
lastly what I'll also do is before specifying the body,
I'll set up some headers here
where I'll be clear about what data we're sending,
we'll obviously send content type application/json data and we of course also accept data of that
response, so application/json
.
So this is the post request I want to send in send data which just remind you will be executed if our
browser does not support service workers or the sync manager.
Now that will send the fetch method,
of course I want to react to the response here and see if that works,
so here I will simply log send data and then output the response like this.
You can of course also use response JSON to extract that,
for me it's fine to do it like that.
You may also want to call update UI here to reload the page basically, rebuild the page once the data
has been sent because now you can fetch the updated data from the back-end or you add the card manually
with Javascript, whatever you like.
So this is our fallback,
send data,
now let's go back to handling the synchronization event though and it was useful that we wrote the
send data method here because we're going to use something very comparable in the service worker.